Okay, so the final segment on information
retrieval is going to be a quick summary
of existing information retrieval
toolkits, and data sets.
So there's a number of
open source IR toolkits.
Some of them are here just for
historical reasons.
For example, the Smart system which
has been around for 30 plus years.
There's MG from Australia and New Zealand.
There's Lemur from Carnegie Mellon
University, University of Massachusetts.
There's Terrier from
the University of Glasgow,
and Clairlib from
the University of Michigan, and
also a very large open source project
called Lucene from the Apache foundation.
So let's look at some of those.
So smart is the most influential
information retrieval system that
was developed by Gerard Sartin
many years ago, since the 60s.
It's based on a vector space model and it
has a lot of different weighting options.
It's written in the C Language, and it has
been improved over the years to the point
where in some of the tech evaluations,
it actually won the first place.
It's still available for download and
it is used in a lot of information
retreival classes as a teaching tool.
MG is a highly efficient toolkit for
retrieval of both text and images.
Was developed in the 90s by people
at the universities of Waikato and
Melbourne and RMIT in Australia.
It's also written in C and
is based on the vector spaced model, but
it uses a lot of tricks for efficient
compression and data representation.
It also has achieved
good TREC performance.
More recently, some systems called
Lemur and Indri based on language
model based informational
retreival have been developed.
They're written in C++ and
are highly extensible.
They're based on both vector space and
probabilistic models, and they have also
achieved very good TREC performance.
And finally Lucene is an open source
Information Retrieval toolkit
that is written in Java.
It's distributed by the Apache foundation
and has been ported to multiple languages.
It's very good for building practical
IR and web applications from scratch.
And there are many applications out there
that have been built on top of Lucene for
example, Nutch and SOLR.
So this concludes the section
on information retrieval.

